<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:zenoss.com:doctypes:dita:dtd:reference" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="d55e86"><title>Splunk Data Source Type</title><refbody>
  <section><p>This ZenPack adds the Splunk data source type to <ph conkeyref="names/platform"/>. This data
        source can be used to monitor the results of Splunk searches.</p>
    <p>The Splunk data source type has the following fields in common with
    many other <ph conkeyref="names/platform"/> data
    source types:</p><ul>
      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Name</uicontrol>: The name given to your data
        source.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Enabled</uicontrol>: This data source will only be
        polled if enabled is set to true.</p>
      </li>
    </ul><p>In the event that the Splunk search fails to execute successfully an
    event will be generated. The following fields control key fields in the
    generated event. It is important to note that these fields only apply when
    the Splunk search fails to execute, and not when a threshold on the data
    point is breached.</p><ul>
      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Component</uicontrol></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Event Class</uicontrol></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Event Key</uicontrol></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Severity</uicontrol></p>
      </li>
    </ul><p>The following fields are specific to Splunk type data
    sources.</p><ul>
      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Splunk Server</uicontrol>: Hostname or IP address of
        your Splunk server. If left blank the <keyword outputclass="envar">SPLUNK_SERVER</keyword>
        environment variable will be used.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Splunk Port</uicontrol>: Port that the splunkd daemon
        is listening on. Default is 8089. If left blank the
        <keyword outputclass="envar">SPLUNK_PORT</keyword> environment variable will be used.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Splunk Username</uicontrol>: Splunk username. Default
        is admin. If left blank the <keyword outputclass="envar">SPLUNK_USERNAME</keyword> environment
        variable will be used.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Splunk Password</uicontrol>: Splunk password. Default
        is changeme. If left blank the <keyword outputclass="envar">SPLUNK_PASSWORD</keyword>
        environment variable will be used.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><uicontrol outputclass="guilabel">Search</uicontrol>: Search string exactly as it would
        be typed into the Splunk search engine. Be careful to use full quotes
        and not apostrophes where necessary.</p>
      </li>
    </ul></section></refbody></reference>
